# Chest-Xrays
Pneumonia is a sudden respiratory infection that can result from bacterial, viral or fungal agents. It targets the lungs, provoking inflammation in the air sacs and leading to pleural effusion, a condition characterised by the accumulation of fluids in the lung (Kundus et al., 2021). It represents over 15 percent of fatalities among children aged less than five years (WHO, 2019). Globally, pneumonia tragically takes the life of one child every 39 seconds. Hence, timely diagnosis can have a crucial impact on averting the progression of the illness towards a fatal outcome.
Deep learning methods have shown superiority over conventional machine learning techniques when applied to various image analysis task in the medical field, including but not limited to tracking, categorisation and classification. Deep learning techniques in pneumonia detection is situated within the broader field of medical image analysis using artificial intelligence. It has helped to solve critical problem in healthcare like the early and accurate detection of pneumonia from medical imaging data such as Xrays. With popular pre trained models such as VGG16, VGG19, ResNet50, Inception V3, EfficientNet, outcomes have improved accuracy through transfer learning.
The purpose of this study is to compare deep learning models for pneumonia detection including CNN based architecture and baseline modes (DenseNet121, VGG16, ResNet50, and Inception V3), and evaluate their performance on Xray classification using metrics such as accuracy, precision, F1 score and to seek answer to the following questions-
1)Which pre trained model is the most effective in classifying pneumonia?
2)How do these models compare in terms of accuracy?
The research showed that VGG16 performed very well on the dataset predicting accurately with higher precision. Overall VGG16 was more efficient.
